---
title: Building your personal website with R blogdown
author: Yabin Da
date: '2020-09-24'
slug: blogdownwebsite
categories:
  - Fun
tags:
  - Blogdown
  - Persoanl Website
subtitle: ''
summary: 'Some tips on building your personal website with R blogdown'
authors: [Yabin Da]
lastmod: '2021-06-27T10:53:13-05:00'
featured: no
draft: false
math: true
image:
  caption: ''
  focal_point: ''
  preview_only: no
projects: []


output:
  blogdown::html_page:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 4

---



```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```


**Note that this article is outdated. Lots of things have changed. Please refer to the wowchemy [documentation](https://wowchemy.com/docs/) for the most updated method to create a website**. 



### Why I chose blogdown to build my personal website

I used to host a personal website with `google site`, which is nice and friendly to begninners. However in certain cases, google site may not be that handy. For instance, it is not compatible with `R markdown` files. You are not allowed to upload html files generated by `R markdown` to your Google site (technically you can do this by embedding the html codes, see [this](https://www.steegle.com/google-sites/how-to/insert-custom-code), but that's not what I wanted). 

So if you plan to regularly share posts (such as html files or `R markdown` files) on your website, `google site` will probably let you down. Note that `Markdown` file and `R markdown` file are not the same though very similar, see the differences explained by [Yihui](https://bookdown.org/yihui/blogdown/output-format.html). 

Here comes the `blogdown` package, which is designed for building personal websites. More importantly, it is a package rooted in `R` and `RStuido` and fully compatible with other `R` components. If you are comfortable with `R` programming, `blogdown` will satisfy you. 

### Resources for building website with blogdown


There are countless resources and instructions available to guide you through step by step. See two good examples below.

- Intuitive instructions by [Annie Lyu](https://annielyu.com/2020/01/12/blogdown-website/)
- A throughout instruction by [Wowchemy](https://wowchemy.com/docs/install/)

However, before you hit the road, I'd like provide additional advice based on my experiences and hopefully you can benefit from it. 

The basic idea is that you are not actually "creating" a website, instead, you customize a template. For instance, the template I used is called `Hugo Academic`. A collection of templates can be found from [here](https://themes.gohugo.io/). 

After you finish the customization, you are highly recommended to deploy your website with `Github` and `Netlify`. Should you not worry about for this, because the instructions I provided above cover the whole process in details. 

Long story in short, you can follow [Annie Lyu](https://annielyu.com/2020/01/12/blogdown-website/)'s instruction and customize your website on your **local machine** (this is the **first step**), and then upload your website folder to a newly created repository in `Github` (this is the **second step**). To do that, you can either create a new repository directly on `Github`, or you can take advantage of `Github Desktop`. The **third step** is to deploy using `Netlify`, which is quite straightforward. 

Alternatively, you can also follow the step by step instruction by [Wowchemy](https://wowchemy.com/docs/install/), which is the official guide to create website using `hugo` (the workhourse used in the blogdown package). That means the instruction is a general cookbook and is not particularly written for `R blogdown`. For the [Wowchemy](https://wowchemy.com/docs/install/) instruction, you need to set up your `Github` repository first and customize directly in `Github`. The final deploying process is similar. 

**The punchline is**:

- If you are comfortable with `RStiduo` and `R markdown`, you may want to follow [Annie Lyu](https://annielyu.com/2020/01/12/blogdown-website/)'s instruction. 
- If you are more familiar with `Github`, you can try the instruction by [Wowchemy](https://wowchemy.com/docs/install/). 


### Potential problems with the template

If you follow [Annie Lyu](https://annielyu.com/2020/01/12/blogdown-website/)'s instruction, you may encounter problems with the `gcushen/hugo-academic` template. Remember to change the template to `wowchemy/starter-academic`. See the snapshot below. 


```{r, echo=F, out.width='80%'}

knitr::include_graphics("/post/2020-09-24-blogdownwebsite.en_files/plot1.png", error = F)

```


### Custermize your webiste

After you complete your webiste using the template, you can move forward to custermizing the template based on your preference. To start with, follow this instruction [here](https://wowchemy.com/docs/getting-started/get-started/) to select a color theme and font theme for your website. 

Then follow this [instruction](https://wowchemy.com/docs/getting-started/page-builder/) to custermize your homepage. You can delete unnecessary sections and create new sections based on your needs. 

I know there are lots of stuff there but do not get yourself overwhelmed. Just try to play with it and you will be like a professional sooner or later. 



### Other tips that might be useful for you

#### Add publications to your website

You can either automatically add publications through `*.bib` BibTex files or manually add using `hugo` command. See the instruction from [Wowchemy](https://wowchemy.com/docs/managing-content/#create-a-publication). 

- **Automatically**

  1. You need to create a list of your own publication and export it as a ` *.bib ` file. I highly recommend you do this with [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/).
  
  2. If you have installed the [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/), that says you have `Python` installed on your computer. You can proceed by installing `academic`. To do this, open your Terminal under `Anaconda` (You can find it in the Window start menu, if you are using a Windows system), see the figure below.
     
     ```{r, echo = F}
     
     knitr::include_graphics("/post/2020-09-24-blogdownwebsite.en_files/plot2.png", error = F)
     
     ```
     And then type the following command in the opened Terminal.
     
     ```
     pip install -U academic
     
     ```
     Following that, use the `cd` command to navigate to your website folder in the terminal.
     
     ```{r, echo = F}
     
     knitr::include_graphics("/post/2020-09-24-blogdownwebsite.en_files/plot3.png", error = F)
     
     ```
     
  3. Finally, you will be able to import your publications with the command below. 
     
     ```
     academic import --bibtex <path_to_your/publications.bib>
     
     ```
     Here `<path_to_your/publications.bib>` is the pah of your `bib` file. Do **remove** the `<>` while you are pasting the path to the terminal. See the figure below. 
     
     ```{r, echo=F}
     
     knitr::include_graphics("/post/2020-09-24-blogdownwebsite.en_files/plot4.png", error = F)
     
     ```
  4. Now you should be able to see your publications in the `content/publication/` folder of your website folder.
     
     Note that the command will automatically create separate folders for each of your publications. 
     
  5. In each of the publication folder, you can customize the `index.md` file based on your needs, such as adding `author_notes`, `tags`, and `publication_types`. 
     
     **To highly your name in the author list**, open the `config\params.toml` file in your website folder, and set `highlight_superuser = true`. 
  
- **Manually**

  Initially, I did not go over the approach of manually adding publications. However, later on, I figured out it's quite useful when you have updates on your publication list such as a working paper or new publications. In these cases, the manually adding approach is handy and more convenient. 
  Below I follow the instruction in [Wowchemy](https://wowchemy.com/docs/managing-content/#create-a-publication) and briefly show you how to do the task. It's very simple and just one line of code. 
  
  1. Follow the second step in the automatically adding publication approach and open your Terminal under `Anaconda`.
  
  2. Before you type any commands in the terminal, you need to first navigate to your website folder using the `cd` command (see the second step in the automatic adding method).
  
  3. Then you simply type the code below to add your working papers and new publications, where `<my-publication>` is the name of your publication, using hyphens (-) instead of spaces. Again do remember to remove the `<>`. 
  
    
    ```
    hugo new --kind publication publication/<my-publication>
  
    ```
  
    This command will automatically create a publication file in your `content/publication/<my-publication>/index.md` folder. You can customize and add your inputs to the `index.md`. Your updates will show up on your website after you deploy it. 

  
  
  
  
